[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: One
of the audience favorites
at the GaiaSphere is founder
of the Quantum Academy,
Espen Wold-Jensen, known for his
work in using breath as our path
to awakening consciousness
and regenerating our bodies.
He's here with us today to
share his quantum breathwork,
which can change your life.
It's so good to meet you.
I've heard wonderful
things about you.
>> ESPEN WOLD-JENSEN: It's
so great to be with you.
Thanks so much.
>> REGINA: So you have
an interesting story.
And for people who haven't
attended the Gaia Sphere
and may not already
know your story,
let's get into how breath
literally saved your life.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Absolutely.
I came from Norway to Australia.
I moved to Australia in 2005.
And in 2006, I had a motorcycle
accident and broke both my legs
and fractured part of
my pelvis and my spine.
Got taken to a hospital and
they put 14 different pieces
of metal in me-- bolts and
pins and plates and screws.
>> REGINA: You must be fun
going through security.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I
actually never went off.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
OK, sorry, to interrupt you.
Go ahead.
I was just imagining it.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I thought it
was going to go off like crazy.
Never went off.
So I had the surgery.
Got myself back on my feet
after a couple of months.
And then I went
back to the hospital
in Melbourne,
Australia, a year later
to take the metal out in 2007.
And a few weeks
after the surgery,
I didn't realize
what had happened,
but I realized when
I looked at my leg,
I had horrible blood and
pus traveling down the leg.
So I went to the
hospital, got it swabbed,
sent off to pathology, and it
came back as a staph infection.
>> REGINA: Oh, boy.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
So that was---
>> REGINA: Had you picked
that up during surgery
at the hospital?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
So I got that from
the surgery and when
they took all the metal out.
And I tried everything I did
everything that I was told,
took all the drugs and saw
the doctors and the nurses
and went to all the hospitals
and all the appointments
and everything.
For a year and two
months after the surgery,
I fought for my life
with the staph infection
spreading through my body.
I lost 15 kilos.
And one day in 2008 when
the surgeon walked in,
he looked at me and he said,
the infection is spreading.
He said we have to
amputate your leg.
He said if we can cut your
leg off from the right hip
and down, we can save your life.
And if we don't do that,
then you're going to die.
>> REGINA: That's
pretty intense.
What happens when you have
staph infection moving
through your body for over
that long a period of time?
What are the effects
of it internally?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: The thing
with staph infections is they
don't really respond
to antibiotics.
And so even though
that was the case,
they were still giving me
strong doses and large amounts
of broad spectrum antibiotics.
So it was literally
annihilating my immune system.
So it's kind of like
killing bacteria
which we need for good health.
Obviously, we have more bacteria
in the body than we have cells.
But at the same time--
>> REGINA: Not
killing the bad guys.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Exactly.
So, long story short--
>> REGINA: Did it affect your--
or it had to have affected
your organs.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Everything.
Well, from what I can feel,
I knew that I was dying.
Now I didn't have a lot of
body fat, but I lost 15 kilos.
I felt weak, I felt tired,
I looked like I was dying.
And yeah, one day when the
surgeon looked me in the eyes,
he looked at his
charts and said,
the infection is spreading.
We have to take your leg,
otherwise you'll die.
And first time in my
life, spirit came through.
>> REGINA: OK, let's talk about
the good part now when spirit
came through.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: As I
say to my students now,
I was very blessed to almost die
in hospital twice because I got
the opportunity to learn
how to heal myself.
Now I'm not saying if you
have a motorcycle accident,
don't go to the hospital.
You need to go to the hospital,
like the ambulance saved
my life.
But I say there's a big
difference between health
care and sick care.
When spirit came through, it
was the first time in my life
where I felt something within
me that felt like a home.
And I had lived in fear
for a year and two months
at that point.
But when that came through,
it said, go home and breathe.
Spirit, my higher
self, universe, God,
call it whatever you
want, came through
and said go home and breathe.
And my brain said, what
do you mean breathe?
I've been breathing all my life.
Can you give me--
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Well, how did
you them to let you out and go
home?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Well, as soon as
the surgeon walked out the door,
I ripped the intravenous
out of my arms and I left.
I had such a knowing in me.
And I had tried everything for a
year and two months-- everything
that I was told.
>> REGINA: No, you had no doubt
at that time that what you were
hearing would save your life?
Or did you say, I'm going
to give it a shot because it
feels real to me?
And if it doesn't,
I've done everything?
Which one was it?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It was both.
But it was actually the
point of inner knowing.
I call it an inner standing,
not an understanding.
And it was so real and so deep.
And so I felt at peace.
For the first time in
a year and two months,
I wasn't in fear anymore.
>> REGINA: So you went home
and you started breathing.
So let's start--
now we're getting
into the subject of quantum
reality, the non-material world,
and breathwork combined.
So we know the world is
non-material in nature.
We know you and I are
So talk about what breath is
in this non-material world.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's
a wonderful question.
As I said, the first thing
that happens when you're born
is you take your first breath--
the inhale.
And then the last
thing you do before you
leave this human experience is
you take your last breath, which
is the exhale.
So breath and life
is the same thing.
And as I say, breath and
spirit is the same thing.
It's very interesting when you
study the ancient phenomena
of what the ancient
yogis were talking
about for thousands of years.
And also in many Indigenous
languages around the world,
including in Australia,
where I reside at the moment,
breath and spirit,
the word for air,
breath, and spirit
is the same word.
>> REGINA: Respiration.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Exactly right.
And so what I believe is
that we're all walking around
with the superpower hidden
right underneath our nose,
and no one's really taught
anyone how to use it.
But then we have the researcher
Wim Hof and the ancient yogis
and many, many
others that are now
starting to come back where
science is finally catching up
on what spirituality has been
teaching for thousands of years,
that breath is
indeed a superpower.
And we know its effects on
autonomic nervous system,
default mode network, and
many other things, of course.
>> REGINA: How do you blend the
science of the quantum field
in with the breathwork?
Why is this called
quantum breathwork?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's
a great question.
I had that as an experience.
So I left the hospital, I went
home and I set up on my bed.
And I was just waiting
for an instruction
because I'd been
given an instruction
and I wanted to know what to do.
I was told to breathe.
I was told to breathe in
and out through the mouth,
and to move the energy from the
base of the spine to the crown.
Now I didn't know what that was.
I didn't know about the
torus field at the time.
divine masculine/feminine
and the electromagnetic
and all the aspects that
make up who we are, as you
said, as a non-physical being.
But I kept on breathing
very extensively
and I passed out on my bed.
>> REGINA: I'm not surprised.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: But I woke up
and I had a smile on my face
and I felt wonderful.
Now the thing with the infection
is that I had a hole in my skin
on the right hip for
a year and two months.
And I would notice
that when I was
eating unhealthy or stressing
or sleeping properly,
that hole would get bigger.
So I knew what made it worse.
And similarly, if I
would do a fast and pray
and meditate and
eat clean and so on,
the hole would get smaller.
And when I woke up
the following morning
after doing the
breathwork twice,
the hole had shrunk more than
I had seen in over a year.
And so I thought,
wow, I don't know
what that was, but I'm going to
do it again because I feel great
and it's certainly
doing something.
Second time, third
time I'm doing it,
emotions are coming up.
When I was young, my
brother passed away.
I found him passed away
in his bed when I was five
and he was only a baby.
So as I'm breathing,
that was-- of course,
the issues are stored
in the tissues.
And so, as I'm breathing
the second day,
these visions of finding
a blue baby are coming up.
And the visions of me being
bullied as a child at school
is coming up.
And I didn't know why,
but I trusted the process.
And I kept on breathing.
And I felt like I
was releasing trauma,
stored trauma in my cells,
in the subconscious mind.
And long story short,
I had the infection
for a year and two months.
I tried everything--
everything that I
was told, looking outside
of myself for healing.
And in 3 and 1/2 weeks, I
healed myself using the power
of breath.
So to answer your
question, I truly
do believe that,
as Max Planck said,
we're made up of 99.9% pure
nonphysical consciousness.
This is how we can tap into
the consciousness using breath.
Meditation is a great tool--
many other great tools.
But breath is the portal.
>> REGINA: I would like to know
almost on a mechanical science
level, why that is.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Great question.
I love this question.
So what we now know is that the
breath and oxygen, including
CO2, the combination of the
two, has a direct effect
upon the autonomic
nervous system.
So we have the sympathetic
nervous system-- fight
or flight, and then the
parasympathetic nervous system--
rest and digest.
These are the two
parts of the branches
of the autonomic nervous system.
Ancient yogis have been showing
this for a very long time, how
we can have power over our
autonomic nervous system
using our breath.
So it has to do
with oxygen and CO2.
But also science has shown now
that you will literally change
your brain when you breathe.
There was a study
out of Oslo in 2013
that showed you actually have
a change to the gene expression
using yoga and breathwork.
They had 111 changes
to the gene using
yoga and breathwork and only 38
in the test and control group.
So that's one way.
And the other way is, of
course, also downregulating
the stress response or the
sympathetic nerve response.
Downregulating the
default mode network
in the brain, which has to
do with ego and survival,
often overthinking, beta
brainwaves, that sort of stuff,
but also accessing
the super conscious.
I think this is an
interesting conversation
to have-- activating the
pineal and pituitary circuit
in the brain.
That was a lot.
>> REGINA: That's a lot.
And shall we go
there now or shall
we go to the energy
center system, which
has to do with chakras
interference patterns
or should we hop right
to the pituitary?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I think it's
great to cover the energy
centers first.
So when I finished
clinical practice in 2016,
I was burnt out and exhausted.
And I wanted to take some
time out to, quote unquote,
"find myself."
So I thought, what better to
do than to go on a journey
into the jungle in Peru
and sit with the earth,
be present, meditate,
and so on and so forth?
So I took a trip into
the Sacred Valley.
And after a 30-day fast, I did
20 days on water and 10 days
on just eating herbs.
I started having
some very interesting
spiritual experiences.
>> REGINA: I would think you're
too associated with the body
by that time.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Exactly.
And it was good because I
needed to purify myself.
I had been in fight or flight
in sympathetic dominance,
and most people are in
sympathetic dominance.
This is part of the problem.
>> REGINA: That is a chronic
issue for society at large
globally.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Absolutely.
Yeah, absolutely.
And this is why
breath can actually
change that, which we'll
come to in a moment.
So I was in Peru.
I was experiencing
this long-term fast.
And I started receiving
visions and downloads.
It was the first time
since the time when
I had the spirit come
through and share with me
that I needed to breathe.
And I started seeing colors.
And it was the chakra system--
red and orange and
yellow and green.
And I thought, wow,
this is interesting.
I know about these chakras, but
I've never really done anything
with them.
It's like knowing meditation
but not meditating,
knowing nutrition
but not eating clean.
So I was like, I feel like
there is something within this.
So I started researching
the ancient Vedic teachings
through the Bhagavad Gita
and Upanishads and so on.
And I found an
ancient blueprint that
showed that the
primary interference
pattern, the biggest
problem for the activation
of dormant energy, for the
healing of the human body,
for the illumination of
the mind and the brain,
the biggest blockages are
lower frequency emotions.
>> REGINA: Yeah, absolutely.
Fear.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah, 100%.
So Einstein said
there's fear and love,
all other emotions are
derivatives of these two.
And I discovered there's
deeper layers to this.
So fear blocks the first energy
center-- the root chakra.
Guilt blocks the second one.
>> REGINA: Interesting.
Yeah.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: And then
shame blocks the third one.
Grief blocks the heart.
And so on.
Now, I started studying
this and going deeper
and it brought me to the
work of Dr. Hawkins, who
of course, was able to quantify
the vibrational bandwidth.
Exactly.
And in so many of his
books and his work,
he's been highlighting
this, including
the book Letting Go, which
is a wonderful piece of work.
And he showed that fear
vibrates at approximately
100 oscillations
or cycles a second.
Guilt is at 30.
Shame is at 20.
So 0 is death.
So feeling not good enough
or ashamed of who you are
is just a little bit
healthier than being not here.
Grief is at 75 and so on.
>> REGINA: I mean, it's like
shame is self-annihilation
on some levels.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: For me,
depending on how deep you want
to go.
But for me, in
theory, I feel shame
and not feeling
good enough, it's
almost like disrespecting
the universe because you're
a unique being with
so much love and light
and beauty and potential.
And not feeling
good enough, it's
making it about you, not
about your gift to the world.
>> REGINA: Well, that's a
long standing program on earth
that's ubiquitous and has been
going on for tens of thousands
of years.
And then you have the rest
of the societal parental
programming underneath that.
But it's the larger framework
that is the problem.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: But that's
starting to clear now.
>> REGINA: It's
starting to clear.
Yeah, that's what's
beautiful is your work
and other people's
work is coming forward
just as that other big program
in effect is starting to clear,
which is beautiful.
So anything more you want
to say about that, about
the lower emotion?
Can I add something
at this point?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yes, please.
>> REGINA: OK.
So I have a very
strange birth defect
in that I don't create
cortisol-- almost none.
And it's very rare.
But when you're about to tank
through some kind of stressor,
it took me many, many
years to figure out I
could actually stop
going into shock
in the beginning of
the downward spiral,
just through managing
the fear that
comes up in response to the
feeling that you're dying.
And so whenever it would
start, I used to just like,
oh, no, it's happening.
And the fear would rush
through and then boom,
everything unconscious have
to be rushed to the ER.
I almost never have to
go to the ER anymore.
All I do is say no.
Breathe.
You're fine.
You know what to do.
And that changes the outcome
and it's a serious outcome.
You can die from it-- from fear.
So it's almost like a
canary in the coal mine.
Not making cortisol
and not going into fear
is just what you're
talking about.
This sympathetic
overdrive people are in,
it's almost the hallmark
statement for survival.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Well, and that's
the purpose of the sympathetic
nervous system-- it is survival.
And they say about
10% of the brain
should be activated within fight
or flight, as in fight or flight
is necessary.
>> REGINA: But if it overwhelms
you and you stay in it,
it's no good.
>> WOLD-JENSEN:
There's a whole point.
Sympathetic dominance is
now a massive pandemic.
>> REGINA: Massive problem.
>> WOLD-JENSEN:
And it's worldwide.
>> REGINA: That's why I
brought this up, by the way.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
And most people--
you're spot on.
And most people don't
know that they're
stuck in sympathetic dominance.
And beta brainwaves,
often overthinking.
Default mode network
is locked in.
And basically,
they're in survival
and they don't even know.
And then they put coffee on
top of it and this and that.
And so they're living in this
feedback loop of survival.
Now when you're operating in the
lower energy centers in fear,
which is survival--
fight or flight,
you cannot access the
executive center of the brain.
You cannot even access the
beautiful energy of the heart
because you're in survival,
where approximately 95% of life
force energy is stored or
trapped in the three lower
centers.
My hypothesis is
then, what would
happen if we could clear
the lower frequency
emotions of the body, if we
could turn fear to fuel guilt
to gratitude, shame
to self-worth, grief
to grace, If we could go through
an inner alchemical process
where we let go of these--
thoughts, patterns,
indoctrinations, and programs,
some of which aren't even ours.
We took it on epigenetically
from our parents.
>> REGINA: We're
talking empaths.
It's a whole other layer to it.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah, right.
>> REGINA: You're carrying
around stuff that you
didn't even know who he
belongs to most of the time.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Exactly.
You know what I love?
Regina, I love the saying
it ran in my family
until it ran into me, because we
have the power of consciousness
to change.
We have the power.
We didn't learn about emotions.
My parents never taught
me about emotions.
It was just get on with it.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
Oh, absolutely.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's an emotion.
>> REGINA: Quit your whining.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Exactly.
But emotion is energy in motion.
Everything in the
universe moves in waves.
But if it's not moving, if the
energy can't flow through you
because you're stuck in
fear or guilt or shame
or whatever it might be, then it
becomes not an energy in motion,
but an issue in the tissue.
And that will then express
itself as a disease
because the body never makes a
mistake and the body never lies.
So if you have--
>> REGINA: Because blocking the
flow of all the healing energy
and light that
would be coming in.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Exactly.
It's the lower
frequency density.
All diseases are
lower vibration.
But when we clear this, we can
allow a life force to flow.
And that is a really
beautiful thing.
And that's then entering the
higher states of consciousness,
of course.
>> REGINA: So you were
mentioning a little bit ago,
so that society is basically
stuck in this hypersympathetic
mode, which also keeps
you in beta overdrive.
So in a kinder, gentler more--
a world that's more responsive
to who we really are, let's
just put it that way.
Would we mostly be
resting in alpha state?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It varies
and it should vary depending
on the situations.
I mean, we can even access
high gamma brainwave frequency.
>> REGINA: Gamma
from relaxed states.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah,
super consciousness.
>> REGINA: But I mean, would
we more or less be in and out
of that much more open,
sensitive, subtle state of mind?
So we would be much
more intuitive.
I'm bringing that
up because we're
going to get to that as well.
You use breathwork to access
intuition and much more.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
And everyone has
this amazing ability.
The scientists say
that we're using--
say 98% of our DNA is
junk-- they call it.
So we're using
about 2% of our DNA.
We're accessing very small
parts of the brain normally.
And so on.
And now with the
studies that we've seen,
we know that we can activate
DNA and gene expression
through the study, I mentioned
the University of Oslo 2013
and so on.
But there's a lot
more to it than that.
I believe that we are
supernatural light beings that
have been downregulated to
a two-stranded carbon DNA,
and we are in the
process of remembering,
putting back the parts
and the pieces of the self
by illuminating the
body and the mind.
And these are the tools
that are now available.
They've been around
for thousands of years,
but they were lost and
they are coming back.
>> REGINA: Yes, they are.
So give us a couple of
testimonials or case studies
you know of where
people have come in
for cases having
to do essentially
with lower emotional
function that
is now manifested in disease?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I
had one lovely lady.
Her name is Susan.
She came to one of
my last experiences.
She has been blind
her whole life
and she has not seen
colors for 27 years.
She does the work.
She clears the
fear and the guilt
and the shame and
the grief and so on.
And then afterwards,
with her carer
there, obviously doing
sign language, which means
she was holding her hands.
And as she was
moving her hands, she
was realizing what
she was expressing.
And she was sharing
with us how she
had seen colors for the first
time in her life in 27 years.
>> REGINA: And this is
with her internal sight.
She wasn't seeing it even
with her internal sight
prior to that.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Nothing.
Not a single experience 27
years and within 30 minutes
max of breathing, she's
tapping into the quantum field.
She's activating the
pineal pituitary circuit,
and she's seeing colors for
the first time in 27 years.
>> REGINA: I love it.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: And
then we have healings--
spontaneous remissions.
And this is the thing,
time is only linear
if you're operating in
the third dimension,
because time is a key aspect
of the fourth dimension.
But when you're truly
present and you're
bringing the awareness
up to the brain,
you can truly access
the quantum field.
There is no time and space.
So healing happens
instantaneously.
There is no needing to
wait another 10 years.
If and when you can feel the
body and being with light,
darkness disappears, a.k.a.
healing happens instantaneously.
It's not a promise,
but it's a potential,
just like the quantum field.
>> REGINA: So let's talk
about using the breath then,
because virtually everyone
watching this is interested
in being their most
intuitive they can.
And accessing higher mind
in the hermetic parlance,
it's higher mind, right?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
>> REGINA: And so let's talk
about accessing higher mind with
it.
And we can draw in the
practices of the yogis in that.
>> WOLD-JENSEN:
There's two things.
The most useful tool,
which is so simple to do
and a free of charge.
I think it actually
costs us a lot more
if we don't do it, is to
realize that most people are
stuck in sympathetic
dominance in fight or flight.
The fastest, easiest
way to override
that circuit, that
firing and wiring,
the pattern that's been going
on for sometimes decades,
is to learn to breathe
through the nose.
>> REGINA: Well,
tell us about that.
That alternate
breathing or which--
show us the best kind
to rapidly get out
of sympathetic overdrive.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Easy.
So alternate nostril
breathing is very powerful
and very powerful.
But the simplest way is simply
just to be a nose breather.
So most people, when you're
in sympathetic dominance,
will breathe through the mouth.
And then we stimulate the
sympathetic nervous system,
adding in more fight or flight.
But if we simply learn to
breathe through the nose,
that means we're at the desk.
We're doing our work,
we're driving our car,
we're picking up
our kids, whatever
it is, we're just breathe
in through the nose
into the lower part of the
belly, to the lower dantian.
And we allow the
belly to come out,
and then we breathe
out of the nose
again and relaxing the body.
Already we are starting to fire
and wire the parasympathetic.
So most people just need
to become nose breathers.
I even taped my mouth
when I sleep at night
so that I can continuously
fire wire that loop.
>> REGINA: That's a thing now.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yep.
So, honestly, if you can
catch yourself as many times
in the day being aware that
you are aware of the fact
that you're breathing
through your nose,
you're already going to
downregulate the stress
response.
That is a practice
that is free, that
is vital, and necessary
for the rest of your life.
>> REGINA: Oh, absolutely.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: That's it.
If we can start there--
>> REGINA: It's bringing
up something else.
You have cilia in your nose.
It's supposed to help remove
some of the toxins on the way
in.
When you're breathing
through your mouth,
you don't have any
of those filters.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Even
when I exercise.
>> REGINA: So you're breathing
in unfiltered air through
the mouth and all the
pollutants and everything else.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: And
this is the thing.
If you have to run
away from a tiger
or from a dangerous
situation, you're
not going to breathe
through your nose.
You need to get a lot of
oxygen really quickly.
And we do that in
transformational breathing--
mouth breathing.
But let's say 90 plus
percent of the time,
you should be a nose breather.
So that's step number 1.
>> REGINA: Can you just show the
alternate breathing for those
who want to go for
the super punch?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
Alternate nostril
breathing-- Nadi Shodhana,
is such a powerful practice.
>> REGINA: I love it.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: So basically,
you close one nostril,
you breathe in,
and then you hold,
and then you alternate by
opening and breathing out.
so let's say that I breathe
in through my right nostril.
>> REGINA: Just do it
for a couple breaths.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: So if
you want to join in.
Hold, you swap, and then
you exhale through the left.
You hold on the exhale,
you inhale again
through the left, hold, swap,
exhale through the right.
And you'll do it
a little bit more
slowly than what I
just demonstrated.
But this actually has been
shown on functional MRI scans
to create coherence
between the left
and the right
hemispheres of the brain.
>> REGINA: That's
what I love about it.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's amazing.
And most people,
as you know, are
stuck in left brain,
right side, which
is the more masculine
dominant side of things,
continuously being busy, and/or
at least in fight or flight.
But this can
actually help access
the right part of
the brain, which
is the more emotional
side of the brain.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
No, that's beautiful.
Thanks for sharing that with us.
OK.
So higher consciousness,
higher mind.
Let's talk about
intuition and what's
happened with other
people when they've
started doing the breathwork
where everything just sort
of opens up for them.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: First, I think
we have to ask the question,
who am I?
It's a very basic,
fundamental question,
but it's the question, who am I?
And if you were to say I
am spirit or a soul having
a human experience, you
would be most aligned
with what quantum physics
is actually saying.
So Max Planck discovered
this over 100 years ago.
We know it to be true today.
So when we realized that we are
not just the body or the mind,
but the eternal
consciousness that
occupies, as it has an
experience through the body
and the mind, we realize that
we are the eternal embodied
in temporary time.
If we can identify
that there's more to us
than just flesh and
bone, we can then
begin the practice of,
as I say, coming home.
So breath is the way to do this.
I believe the soul stands for
the state of unconditional love.
>> REGINA: I think that's good.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: The higher
self, the aspect of us that just
loves.
And so most people are
operating in survival--
we talked about that.
We're operating within
the five senses or six
if you include thought.
But we know there's so
much more to the brain
and to this experience
that we call life.
So breath, particularly this
type of breath that I share,
there's many types of breath,
but quantum breath specifically
is moving the energy from
the lower energy centers--
number 1, 2, and 3, where most
of the energy or the life force,
the prana, the Chi, is
stored, and moving its way
up through the heart.
When we enter the heart,
we can access and open
the torus field--
the electromagnetic
field of the heart.
When we get to
the throat, we can
begin to get messages of
clarity and wisdom and truth.
When we get up to
the pineal gland,
we can activate this amazing
pineal pituitary circuit.
And this is where the
ancient ones obviously
refer to this as the all
seeing eye or the third eye.
But there's more to it
than just the pineal.
The pineal, I believe,
is the masculine
and the pituitary
is the feminine.
If you consider now your brain
and central nervous system
bathes in cerebrospinal fluid.
So the CSF is what protects
the central nervous system
at all times.
It's made up primarily
of proteins and salts.
And this energy that is at
the base of the spine moves--
you flush your brain
twice a day, basically,
moves through the
cerebrospinal fluid.
Now, if and when you
can create pressure
at the base of the spine--
you can do this via breathwork
and what we refer
to as the root lock
by contracting the
perineum, squeezing
the glutes at the base, you
will create pressure in the CSF,
primarily the third ventricle
in the brain, which also,
of course, is where
you find the pineal.
The interesting
thing that we see
is the pineal gland--
we see this on MRI
scans, has these
tiny little crystals.
They're called calcite.
Now they are a piezoelectric.
Piezo, meaning pressure,
electric being electric.
So if you create in
and out, in and out
breath with pressure at
the base of the spine,
like the ancient yogis were
teaching for thousands of years,
you create pressure
against the brain,
against the pineal, which then
activates the electric signals
in the brain.
So with pressure and driving
the energy up to the brain,
you will literally see
the pineal gland begins
to oscillate and vibrate.
Now this turns it
into a transducer,
which is, of course, why
we call it the third eye.
But the missing piece, which
I find is really interesting.
Everyone's talking
about the pineal gland.
That's wonderful.
But in nature, there's the
masculine and the feminine,
the yin and the yang, the
electric and the magnetic.
We are an electromagnetic being.
Just like the earth has a
north pole and the south pole,
we have the same.
Now, what happens when you bring
the energy up to the pineal,
the calcite crystals
get pressure on them.
The pineal gland
begins to vibrate.
Then the pineal gland activates.
What it does also right
in front of the pineal
is the pituitary, right at the
back of the base of the nose.
And the pituitary
is the feminine.
So that's what the ancient yogis
called the Ida and Pingala.
So as powerful as it is to
talk about the pineal, that's
the masculine.
But you will not have
creation or activation
without the feminine as well.
And this is where
the secret lies.
So when you activate the
pineal, it begins to shimmer.
It begins to vibrate.
It can create melatonin,
serotonin, dimethyltryptamine,
DMT, which is-
>> REGINA: DMT, yeah, it's
going to take you on a trip.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: That's a wonder.
And you know what?
DMT exists in
everything organic--
plants, animals, humans.
And it's an illegal substance if
you were to sell it or smoke it.
But you don't need
to have an exogenous.
You can have an
endogenous experience.
Your brain will make
DMT if you can move
enough energy to the brain.
So back to the Ida/Pingala.
When you activate the pineal
and it begins to shimmer,
it becomes transducer or almost
like a conductor of energy.
You can then tune in to the
energy that exists in the field
that you might not
have been able to tune
into with your five senses,
but it's still here.
And then the pituitary
kicks in, which
is the more intuitive feminine.
The two combined is
the eye of Horus.
The two combined
activates the third eye.
So the pineal, yes,
it's the gateway,
but the pituitary and
the feminine access
is what creates the
pineal pituitary.
And then you have
the illumination
of the mind, which also
gives access to the crown.
>> REGINA: And
that's what you do.
When you're doing your
weekend workshops,
you always work toward
that toward the end.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: That's correct.
So we want to clear all
these low frequency emotions.
>> REGINA: It takes a little
time to get through that.
Well, let's talk about
that for a minute.
So when people start
doing breathwork,
there are people who say,
I'm not doing that again.
I've done it before.
There was too much trauma.
Let's talk about
the initial release
before we can rise up
into that final expression
that people experience.
You said it yourself, you
saw your little brother.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
And so I truly do believe
that the emotions are
stored in the body.
The thoughts are the
language of the mind
and the emotions of the
language of the body.
And when we store these issues
in the tissues, they're there.
But because we get so busy,
the default mode network
is in hyperdrive.
And it basically keeps us
in the ego mind and fight
or flight and survival.
We don't take the
time or have the time
or get the time to really
sit and feel and process
these emotions.
So what happens when we do
the breath is you actually
downregulate the default
mode network in the brain
and you actually bring
to light what is actually
inside of you, which is why
it's not creating traumas.
Breathwork doesn't
create traumas.
>> REGINA: No, It's
just releasing.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's
releasing, it's revealing,
it's bringing to your awareness
that which was suppressed that
can now be expressed.
So when you do this
kind of breath,
it'll come out, like for
example, for me, seeing
the visions of a blue baby.
And it was very
traumatic, but I realized
that as I was breathing,
I was releasing.
And as I said,
rather out than in.
So I could let go of
it and sit with it
and feel it and be OK
with the integration of it
rather than suppressing it.
So firstly, it downregulates
the default mode network.
It gives you access to
those parts of the body
and the mind that
has been suppressed.
And it actually gives you
a beautiful whole range
of neurochemicals
in the brain as well
using breath, which allows
us to sit with what has been
suppressed and to integrate it.
I think it's important
if we are spirits having
a human experience, life
never happened to us,
life always happened for us.
And since you cannot
change the past,
you can change the meaning.
If you change the meaning,
you change your life.
And that's the key.
So once you see it
from that perspective,
anything and everything
can be healed.
>> REGINA: This is very personal
question of you and esoteric.
Did you ever connect later on
with the soul of the one who
was your little brother?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah,
he's with me all the time.
>> REGINA: Oh, I'm getting
teary because that's what I was
feeling.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah,
he's with me all the time.
And my mother as
well, she's passed
and she comes
through all the time.
>> REGINA: Why did your
brother choose to leave early?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I think
for me, in my reality,
it was to show me and to
allow me to help others to see
the preciousness of life.
We rush through, we don't stop,
we don't feel, we don't breathe,
we're not really present.
We're not really
connected-- most people.
And then we get to the end
of our lives and we look back
and we go, wow.
>> REGINA: I never
really connected.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Where was
I in the human experience?
Where was I?
>> REGINA: Here was this
precious soul that has reminded
you of that throughout your life
and is with you and your mom.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yes.
>> REGINA: That's wonderful.
I love it.
OK, well, everything
is for purpose.
Some of us only live a short
time in any given incarnation.
Some of us live
longer than we should.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Yeah.
And that's a whole
other story too--
how long we can live when we
learn intermittent fasting,
breathwork, meditation.
Oh, my gosh.
>> REGINA: Well, and that's
coming up for us as a species.
We're going to be living
another 20 or 30 years longer
in the very near future.
It's starting for
some people already.
So one other thing I
want to get to-- we
have a few things
we're going to get to.
We still have a little time.
The Kundalini, because I have
such a strange relationship
with it.
I mean, I'm sure most
people don't have that kind,
but still others may as well.
This is very intense
because many people
go to Kundalini yoga.
Let's talk about
what's happening
when you go to your Kundalini
yoga class for a normal person--
more normal.
No one's normal.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: What is normal?
Firstly, Kundalini,
in its essence,
should be tremendously
respected.
It is a dormant force at
the base of the spine that
can be awakened through
these teachings,
but it should be
treated as such.
Many breathwork
facilitators out there,
they have no idea the amount
of power that they're playing.
>> REGINA: Yeah, you should
go into Kundalini class,
anybody can come on and
just wander in any condition
physically, mentally,
emotionally, any age,
and they start you.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's because
they don't really know the power
of the tools that
they're sharing.
So for me, this
should be respected--
tremendously respected.
And so Kundalini
awakening can also
be likened to psychiatric
conditions or experiences.
So you should not
take that lightly.
So if and when you
go to breathwork,
you need to make sure
that the practitioners are
trauma-informed,
that they really
know what they're doing,
that they really understand
the body, the mind,
the emotions, and also
spirit, because this is how
we bring spirit into the body.
How we bring light
into the body is
using the breath,
which I'd love to talk
about how we can breathe in
alignment with the torus field.
And as we then exhale, we feel
the body and being with light.
But the Kundalini energy in
general should be respected.
You should study it.
You should know what
you're doing before it.
And if you are to
engage in it, make
sure that the practitioners or
the people holding this space
are well-equipped to
hold the space for you.
And that you are ready.
>> REGINA: OK, well, my little
cautionary tale is my guides
told me many, many years ago,
do not participate in Kundalini
yoga because I'm not that
attached to the body.
And I didn't know I had
landed in a Kundalini class.
At the end of class, there
was me sitting next to myself.
They couldn't
clear the classroom
because I couldn't
get back in my body,
so I couldn't get my shoes on
or write a check or anything.
It took a while to
integrate the two so I could
do anything and move my body.
So that happens too.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's actually
more common than you think.
And so when I do the
breath like this breath,
I don't even say
it's not even mine.
It came through me through
spirit, my higher self
from past lives, I'm not sure.
But the technology, as I said,
the fifth dimensional technology
that arrived when I almost lost
my life, I am a custodian of it,
I'm a transmission of
it, but it's not mine--
I don't take credit for it.
That in itself comes
with a whole bunch
of very specific protocols
that we practice,
such as when we open
the portal, we only
work with the highest light.
We banish all energies
and entities that
are not of the highest light.
We pull people from the lower
centers into the higher centers.
We activate and
illuminate the brain.
We feel the body and
being with light.
And then we pull every part,
piece, fragment, and aspect
of that person, including
their own souls light
back into the body fully again.
And this is an
agreement that we have--
>> REGINA: Yeah, it
makes total sense.
>> WOLD-JENSEN:
Before we even begin.
And then we can seal the
entire force field in light.
But the grounding-- if
that's not done properly,
if you just go into
Kundalini or breathwork
and you just have the
experience, it's very common.
We have people living-- like
one of my staff members now,
she lost her daughter
when she was young
and she grieved and
grieved, but never got
to connect with
the daughter again.
She did the quantum breathwork
the first time, the one
we call quantum DMT breathwork.
And she had an out-of-body
mystical experience.
She activated the pineal
pituitary circuit,
opened the crown, connected
to the quantum field,
and was with her daughter again.
>> REGINA: Yeah, it's wonderful.
>> WOLD-JENSEN:
For the first time.
But she didn't
want to come back.
>> REGINA: Well,
living in that way,
I understand you don't want to
come back, where the way I did,
it was just very pedestrian.
I was just sitting beside
myself on the floor.
It wasn't mystical or spiritual.
I wasn't-- just wasn't
able to integrate the two.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It was
sitting beside yourself.
You're having an
out-of-body experience.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
I was out-of-body.
But it wasn't the fun kind where
you go wee, I like those better.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I
call those soulgasms.
>> REGINA: Yeah, I like those.
[LAUGHTER]
So two more things.
I want to talk about
accessing past lives.
And then what you
were talking about--
the torus style breathing.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Past lives
are very interesting.
There's a lot of
research out there now
showing that the soul will go
through a lot of experiences.
And that you often, as
it says in the Kabbalah,
that you'll come into this
life with certain lessons
to learn or wounding to heal.
I don't know.
What I do know is that we all
have something to work with,
and we all have
something that we
know epigenetically has been
passed down, that's for sure.
And I also truly do
believe that the soul goes
through these
experiences to learn,
to grow, to heal, to evolve, and
ascend, to come home, to love.
That's why I say when
we do the breath,
we're not going anywhere.
We're coming home.
So as we're in this
human experience,
I believe now is the time
for humanity to awaken,
to come home to love.
There's been 26,000 year or so
cycle and we were the furthest
away from the sun
in December 2012.
And now we're spiraling
back into light.
There's so much light
entering the atmosphere,
toggling on dormant DNA,
removing interference patterns.
And I truly do believe
that this is our time.
Based on the soul's journey
through the past lives
and whatever it's experienced,
I believe this life,
and I can't say for
sure, is an accumulation
of all of those lessons.
And the outcome is to heal,
is to remember to come home,
and to activate that dormant
potential from contraction
to expansion, from fear to love.
And that's the purpose.
And that's when if you
include-- in my model,
I have eight chakras
that we work with,
not just the seven because I
also access the soul star energy
center, which is
pure white light.
So I believe that's
one way we can bring
the soul's light into the body.
And I don't believe heaven
on earth is out there.
I believe heaven on earth is our
opportunity to bring it here.
>> REGINA: Yes.
So let's talk about
the-- if you can
share that, we have
just a few minutes
left, the torus style of
breathing that you were speaking
of earlier.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: It's interesting
because when I ask my students,
how many of you know
what a Taurus field is,
not many people will
raise their hand.
So the torus field--
T-O-R-U-S is the electromagnetic
field that we are.
It's proven, we've always
been, will always be.
The average person's torus field
is about three to six feet wide.
So it's extending
beyond the body.
And it's like a donut shaped
electromagnetic field.
Again, the Earth is
a giant torus field.
Every cell in your body
is and has a torus field.
But when the torus
field is closed
and the center is, of course,
the heart, when it's closed,
it's when we live in
fear and survival.
When the torus field
in the heart can open,
we can expand our
electromagnetic field.
The interesting thing is,
at the base of the spine
and in the brain, there
is the polarities.
So if you breathe in through
the bottom, out through the top,
and you can create this pressure
against the pineal pituitary
circuit, you will then create an
induction field, an actual field
of positive at the top,
negative at the bottom, which
is a torus field.
So we can actually
increase and expand
this electromagnetic
field if and when
we learn to breathe properly.
>> REGINA: And the advantage of
expanding that field is what?
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Love,
peace, healing, ascension.
You become a magnet--
a giant magnet to attract the
things that you want, basically.
And we see again,
when the field is
contracted is when we
live in fear and survival.
When we have a
bigger heart field,
we can actually live in that
beautiful parasympathetic God
flow state, which is
what we call coming home.
>> REGINA: Beautiful.
Any final thoughts.
We're out of time.
That just flew.
There's so much more
we could talk about,
but we have to wrap it up.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: I'll
finish with a quick story.
Creator, God, universe, spirit,
whatever you want to call it,
is having a
conversation with man
about the power, the wisdom,
and the unconditional love
of the entire multiverse.
And creator asks,
man, what should we
do with the power, the wisdom,
and the unconditional love
of the entire multiverse?
And man says we should hide it.
We should hide it at the
top of the tallest mountain,
for surely there they
will never find it.
And creator looks
at man and says,
well, one day when mankind
has evolved enough, they
will go there, and when
they do, they will find it.
OK, says man, then
we shall hide it
at the depths of
the deepest sea,
for surely there they
will never find it.
Again, creator leans
in, smiles, and says,
well, one day when mankind
has evolved enough, they
will go there, and when
they do, they will find it.
OK, says man,
well, I don't know.
And then creator leans in and
opens up, smiles and says,
why don't we take the
power, the wisdom,
and the unconditional love
of the entire multiverse
and hide it right there in
the middle of themselves.
For you see, one day when
mankind has evolved enough,
they will go there.
And when they do,
they will find it.
That power, that wisdom,
that unconditional love
is not just in us, it is us.
And this is our time
to remember who we are.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
And more and more
messaging is coming up
from all quarters about how
the ultimate answers lie
in the heart, that it will
speak to you in a clearer
tone and a clearer voice,
clearer messages than anything
we're getting out here.
So that's a beautiful
message to leave us with.
Thank you so much.
This has been super informative.
>> WOLD-JENSEN: Privilege.
Thank you so much.
>> REGINA: I hope this has been
truly helpful as a tool that you
can carry with you and
access at every moment.
For more information on
Espen Wold-Jensen's work,
you can go to doctorespen.com.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]